Welcome to the Saint of the Day podcast, a service of Good Catholic and the Catholic
Company.
Join us each day as we share the story of a unique saint in three minutes or less.
Today's saint is Saint Isidore of Seville.
Saint Isidore of Seville, who lived from 560 to 636, was born in Carthage in Spain to noble
and pious parents.
After the example of their parents, Isidore, as well as his two brothers and sister, all
became saints.
Isidore received his early education at the Cathedral School in Seville where a group
of learned men taught classical education, among them his brother Leander, the Archbishop
of Seville.
The Cathedral School was the first of its kind in the country, and Isidore excelled
in his studies there.
He became a man of great learning, zeal, piety, and apostolic endeavor, assisting his brother
in converting the Visigoths from the Arian heresy.
He followed his brother in becoming next Archbishop of Seville, leading his diocese for nearly
40 years.
Isidore was an important saint for his time.
He was one of the most learned men of the 6th century and is considered the last of
the early church fathers.
He was a prolific writer on the sciences and the classics, which in effect helped preserve
Western civilization during the early Middle Ages following the barbarian invasions.
He composed history books, a dictionary with a structure akin to a database, and an encyclopedia
which was used for nine centuries.
Saint Isidore reunited Spain after the barbarian onslaught, making it a center of culture and
learning.
He required seminaries to be built in every diocese, wrote a rule for religious orders,
and founded schools that taught every branch of learning.
Spain then became a model for similar renewal in other European countries.
For his great learning and written works, he was proclaimed a doctor of the church by
Pope Benedict XIV.
Saint Isidore of Seville is the patron of computers, schoolchildren, and the internet.
His feast day is April 4th.
I invite you to give up social media today and offer it up for someone in need.
Saint Isidore of Seville, pray for us.
Thank you for tuning in.
This is a Good Catholic Podcast.
If you like what you heard, check us out at goodcatholic.com and make sure to subscribe
to our YouTube channel.